BROTHER.
THEY HAVE BEEN FULLY ADVISED OF
THE NATURE OF THE PROCEEDINGS
TODAY.
ALSO, BASED UPON THE ORDER THAT
THE COURT ENTERED LAST WEEK, I
CAN TELL THE COURT THAT -- THEY
HAVE ALSO HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
MEET WITH REPRESENTATIVES FROM
MY OFFICE OVER THE WEEKEND TO
DISCUSS THE NATURE OF THE
HEARING TODAY.
I BELIEVE WE ARE COMPLIANCE
WITH THE VICTIMS RIGHTS ACT.
>> THANK YOU.
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO IS
EXPLAIN THE PROCEDURES THAT WE
ARE GOING TO USE REGARDING THE
SENTENCING HEARING.
LET ME FIRST SAY THAT I REALIZE
THAT THE SENTENCING HEARING HIS
EMOTIONAL FOR MANY OF US.
AND I EXPECT THAT YOUR BEHAVIOR
IN THIS COURTROOM AND THE
OVERFLOW COURTROOM IS
APPROPRIATE.
IF THE COURT DETERMINES THAT
YOU ARE DEMEANOR AND BEHAVIOR
DURING THE HEARING IS NOT
APPROPRIATE, I HAVE ADVISED THE
DEPUTIES THAT I WILL BE ASKING
TO BE ESCORTED OUT OF THE
COURTROOM.
SO BE MINDFUL OF YOUR DEMEANOR.
ALSO AS A REMINDER, ALL
ELECTRONIC DEVICES MUST BE
TURNED OFF.
THE ONLY ELECTRONIC DEVICES
THAT I'VE AUTHORIZED TO BE USED
ARE THOSE THROUGH THE EXPANDED
MEDIA COVERAGE ORDER.
IF DEPUTIES SEE THAT YOU ARE
USING AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE NOT
AUTHORIZED BY THE COURT, THEY
WILL TAKE ACTION ON THAT.
SO BE MINDFUL OF THAT.
IF YOU NEED TO TURN OFF YOUR
ELECTRONIC DEVICES, PLEASE DO
SO NOW.
SO THESE ARE THE PROCEDURES
THAT WE ARE GOING TO USE FOR
THE SENTENCING HEARING FIRST --
FIRST, THE PROSECUTION WILL
PRESENT EVIDENCE AND THEN THE
DEFENSE WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT EVIDENCE.
THEN, IF THERE ARE ANY VICTIMS
UNDER THE VICTIMS RIGHTS ACT
THAT HAVE NOT BEEN CALLED BY
THE PROSECUTION OR DEFENSE OR
ANY OTHER FIND VICTIMS UNDER
THE VICTIMS RIGHTS ACT, THEY
WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
MAKE A STATEMENT TO THE COURT
AS IT RELATES TO THE RIGHTS
UNDER THE VICTIMS RIGHTS ACT.
THEREAFTER, THE PROSECUTION
WILL HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ARGUE AND THE DEFENSE WILL HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE AN
ARGUMENT. IF MR. WATTS CHOOSES
TO, YOU WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE A STATEMENT
AND THEN THE COURT WILL IMPOSE
A SENTENCE IN THIS CASE.
DOES EVERYBODY UNDERSTAND?
OKAY.
AND SO, ARE YOU GOING TO BE
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF THE
PROSECUTION?
>> YES, YOUR HONOR.>> YOU ARE
WELCOME TO PRESENT EVIDENCE.>>
I WOULD LIKE TO TENDER TO THE
COURT WHAT HAS BEEN MARKED AS
SENTENCING EXHIBITS 1 TO 21.
I HAVE PRESENTED TEES TO THE
DEFENSE.
>> THE SENTENCING EXHIBITS ONE
THROUGH 21 REPRESENT A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT PHOTOGRAPHS THAT
ARE IN DISCOVERY THAT
SHENANIGANS MOTHER AND FATHER
WANT THE COURT TO HAVE.
THEY MAY ALLUDE TO THOSE AND I
HAVE ASKED THEM TO -- THAT IS
THE SUBSTANCE OF THOSE.
>> DO HAVE INDIVIDUALS TO MAKE
A STATEMENT?>> I WOULD LIKE TO
CALL UPON FRANK STICK
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT
SHENANIGANS -- THEY LOVED LIFE
AND LOVED BEING AROUND PEOPLE.
THEY ALWAYS HAD GOOD TIMES.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THEY
WENT TO THE BEACH THIS YEAR AND
THEY LOVED IT.
GOD ONLY KNOWS WHAT HAPPENED
THAT NIGHT IN LIFE WILL NEVER
BE THE SAME WITHOUT THEM.
THEY HAD ALL OF THEIR LIVES TO
LIVE AND THEY WERE TAKEN BY A
HEARTLESS PERSON.
THIS IS THE MONSTER THAT TOOK
THE LIVES OF THEM.
I TRUSTED YOU TO TAKE CARE OF
THEM AND NOT KILL THEM.
AND THEY TRUSTED YOU THE
HEARTLESS MONSTER THAT TOOK
THEM OUT LIKE TRASH.
THEY WOULD LOVING AND CARING
PEOPLE AND YOU MAY HAVE TAKEN
THEIR BODIES FROM ME BUT YOU
WILL NEVER TAKE THE LOVE THAT
THEY HAD FOR ME.
THEY LOVED US MORE THAN YOU
WILL EVER KNOW BECAUSE YOU DO
NOT KNOW WHAT LOVE IS.
IF YOU DID, YOU WOULD NOT HAVE
KILLED THEM.
YOU THOUGHT YOU WOULD GET AWAY
WITH THIS AND I DON'T KNOW HOW.
THE CAMERAS DO NOT LIE. YOU
CARRIED THEM OUT LIKE TRASH.
I'VE SEEN THE VIDEOTAPE. BURIED
MY DAUGHTER AND PUT BELLA AND
CELESTE IN BARRELS OF CRUDE OIL.
YOU HAVE TO LIVE WITH THIS
VISION EVERY DAY OF YOUR LIFE
AND I HOPE YOU SEE EVERY TIME
WHEN YOU CLOSE YOUR EYES THAT
-- CLOSE YOUR EYES AT NIGHT.
I WILL THINK OF THEM EVERY DAY
OF MY LIFE AND I LOVE THEM
EVERY DAY OF MY LIFE.
PRISON IS TOO GOOD FOR YOU.
MAY GOD HAVE MERCY ON YOUR
SOUL.
I HOPE YOU ENJOY YOUR NEW LIFE
IT IS NOTHING LIKE YOU HAD OUT
HERE IN MAY THE COURTS HAVE NO
MERCY ON YOU.
IT HURT EVERY DAY IN SO MANY
WAYS. I'VE HEARD PEOPLE SAY
THAT YOU ARE NOT A MONSTER. YOU
ARE AN EVIL MONSTER. ONE OTHER
THING.
THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> HE WOULD LIKE TO STAND WITH
ME BUT HAS ASKED ME TO READ HIS
STATEMENT FOR HIM.
>> I HAVE BARELY SLEPT THE PAST
THREE MONTHS BECAUSE I HAVE
BEEN GOING THROUGH A LOT OF
DIFFERENT EMOTIONS BECAUSE I
DID NOT SEE THIS COMING.
YOU WENT FROM BEING MY SISTER'S
PROTECTOR AND ONE OF THE MOST
LOVED PEOPLE IN MY FAMILY TO
SOMEONE I WILL SPEND THE REST
OF MY LIFE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND.
WHAT GAVE YOU THE RIGHT TO PUT
YOUR HANDS ON A WOMAN, LET
ALONE MY BEST FRIEND, MY
BELOVED SISTER, YOUR DAUGHTERS
AND YOUR SON. WHY WERE THEY NOT
ENOUGH FOR YOU?
YOU TOOK AWAY MY WHOLE WORLD
AND THE PEOPLE THAT MATTER TO
ME THE MOST.
EVERYTHING IN MY LIFE I LOVED,
THEY LOVED YOU AND TRUSTED YOU
AND LOOKED UP TO YOU BECAUSE
YOU PROMISED TO KEEP THEM SAFE
AND INSTEAD YOU TURNED ON YOUR
FAMILY.
MY BLOOD IS BOILING AS I WRITE
THESE LAST WORDS BECAUSE THEY
ARE THE LAST YOU WILL EVER HEAR
FROM ME.
I CANNOT THINK OF THE RIGHT
WORDS TO DESCRIBE THE HATE I
FEEL AND, TO BE HONEST, YOU'RE
NOT WORTH THE TIME AND EFFORT
IT TAKES TO PUT PEN TO PAPER.
THERE IS NOT A DAY THAT GOES BY
THAT I DON'T CRY FOR MY FAMILY.
I ASK MYSELF WHY.
WHY WOULD YOU DO THIS?
YOU DID NOT DESERVE TO BE
CALLED A MAN.
WHAT KIND OF MAN SLAUGHTERS THE
PEOPLE THEY LOVE THE MOST?
DID YOU REALLY THINK THAT THIS
WAS YOUR BEST OPTION TO THROW
AWAY YOUR FAMILY LIKE THEY WERE
GARBAGE?
THEY DESERVE BETTER AND YOU
KNOW IT'S.
I HOPE YOU SPENT THE REST OF
YOUR LIFE BEING HAUNTED BY WHAT
YOU HAVE DONE.
NONE OF US DESERVE THIS.
LISTENING TO MY MOTHER AND
FATHER CRY THEMSELVES TO SLEEP
CAUSES ME ANGUISH THAT IS
BEYOND WORDS.
I CANNOT DESCRIBE HOW THIS
FEELS AND HOW BADLY MY HEART
BREAKS FOR MY PARENTS.
YOU'VE TAKEN AWAY MY FAMILY BUT
YOU CAN NEVER TAKE THEM FROM MY
HEART.
YOU TOOK AWAY MY PRIVILEGE OF
BEING AN UNCLE TO THE MOST
PRECIOUS LITTLE GIRLS I HAVE
EVER KNOWN.
I WILL NEVER HEAR THE WORDS
UNCLE FRANK AGAIN, BUT YOU WILL
NEVER BE CALLED DAD AGAIN.
YOU WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO PUT
YOUR HANDS ON ANOTHER WOMAN.
I CANNOT COMPREHEND HOW THEY
WERE NOT ENOUGH FOR YOU.
THEY LOVED YOU MORE THAN
ANYONE.
YOU WERE THERE HERO.
HOW COULD YOU DESTROY THE
PEOPLE WHO LOVE THEM THE MOST?
I PRAY YOU DON'T HAVE A MOMENTS
PEACE. A CAGE YOUR PRIVILEGED
TO LIVE IN BECAUSE MY FAMILY IS
NOT EVIL LIKE YOU.
WE BEGGED THEM TO SPARE YOUR
LIFE BECAUSE DESPITE
EVERYTHING, WE BELIEVE NO ONE
HAS THE RIGHT TO TAKE THE LIFE
OF ANOTHER, EVEN SOMEONE LIKE
YOU.
I FEEL SORRY FOR YOUR FAMILY.
I KNOW THE PAIN THEY MUST FEEL
KNOWING THEY CANNOT HUG YOU
BECAUSE THAT IS HOW WE FEEL
EVERY TIME REQUIRED FOR OUR
FAMILY.
NOTHING HURTS MORE THAN HEARING
MY FAMILY CRY FOR THEIR LOVED
ONES.
I WISH THAT YOU WOULD TELL THE
TRUTH, BUT I KNOW THAT IS
ASKING FOR MORE THAN YOU'RE
CAPABLE OF.
I STAYED UP ALL NIGHT WRITING
THE STATEMENT.
I DO NOT SLEEP BECAUSE OF YOU.
I LIFE WILL NEVER BE THE SAME,
BUT AT LEAST MY CONSCIENCE IS
CLEAR.
I LIVE FREE, BUT I CANNOT DO
THE SAME FOR YOU.
I'VE NOT SLEPT IN DAYS BECAUSE
I'VE BEEN ANXIOUSLY AWAITING
THIS MOMENT, THE MOMENT I GOT
TO TELL YOU HOW I FEEL AND HOW
THIS HAS AFFECTED MY FAMILY AND
I. WE CAN FINALLY GRIEVE AFTER
TODAY.
IF ANYTHING WILL COME OUT OF
THIS STRONGER THAN WE WERE
BEFORE AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO
PRAY FOR YOUR FAMILY.>> THANK
YOU.
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> I AM SHANNON'S MOTHER.
I WANTED TO THANK YOU FOR THIS
MOMENT.
I WANTED TAKE A MOMENT TO THANK
EVERYONE WHO HAS PRAYED FOR OUR
FAMILY AND SENT GIFTS AND CARDS
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD.
I KNOW GOD WILL PUT PEOPLE
WHERE THEY NEED TO BE.
I ALSO WANT TO TAKE THE TIME TO
TAKE -- TO THANK THE TOWN OF
FREDERICK, THE FBI, THE DAS
OFFICE, THE CBI, FOR
EXCEPTIONAL WORK.
WITH THINK NICOLE ATKINSON,
SHANNON'S NEIGHBOR AND HER
FAMILY.
THEY ARE HEROES.
GOD MAKES NO MISTAKES ON WHO HE
PUTS INTO YOUR LIFE.
MARRIAGE IS ABOUT LOVE, TRUST,
FRIENDSHIP, AND UNITY.
WE MARRY UNTIL DEATH DO US PART
AND OUR DAUGHTER CHIN AND LOVE
TO AND HER FAMILY WAS HER WORLD.
THE DAY THAT YOU TOOK THEIR LIFE
GOD REMOVED THEIR CROWN.
YOUR WIFE TRUSTED YOU AND YOUR
CHILDREN ADORED YOU.
THEY ALSO TRUSTED YOU.
YOUR DAUGHTER BELLA SANG A SONG
PROUDLY, AND I DON'T KNOW IF
YOU GOT TO SEE IT BUT IT WAS,
DADDY, YOU ARE MY HERO.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHO GAVE YOU THE
RIGHT TO TAKE THEIR LIVES.
BUT I KNOW THAT GOD AND HIS
ANGELS WERE THERE AT THAT
MOMENT TO BRING THEM HOME TO
PARADISE.
GOD GIVES US FREE WILL AND NOT
ONLY DID YOU TAKE YOUR FAMILY
OF FOUR, YOU TOOK YOUR OWN LIFE.
I WANT THE WORLD TO KNOW THAT
THEY WERE LOVED BY US AND THEY
WILL ALWAYS BE PROTECTED BY GOD
AND HIS ANGELS.
I DID NOT WANT DEATH FOR YOU
BECAUSE THAT IS NOT MY RIGHT.
YOUR LIFE IS BETWEEN YOU AND GOD
AND I PRAY THAT HE HAS MERCY
FOR YOU.
FROM SHE -- THANK YOU, YOUR
HONOR.
>> YOUR HONOR, THAT IS ALL THE
WITNESSES THAT I PLANNED ON
CALLING.
I AM AWARE THAT MR. AND MRS.
WATTS WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COURT.
I WOULD INVITE THE COURT TO
CALL UPON THEM OR WE CAN DO IT
AFTER ANY EVIDENCE THAT THE
DEFENSE HAS.
>> DO THEY WISH TO MAKE A
STATEMENT?
>> GOOD MORNING, YOUR HONOR.
>> AND IF I CAN HAVE YOU
INTRODUCE YOURSELF TO THE
RECORD.
>> I AM CINDY WATTS.
>> I HAVE AUTHORIZED YOU TO
MAKE A STATEMENT TO THE COURT
AS PATERNAL GRANDPARENTS OF THE
CHILDREN. IF YOU CHOOSE NOT TO
MAKE A STATEMENT BUT YOUR
DESIGNEE CHOOSES TO DO SO, SHE
MAY DO THAT.
HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO PROCEED
TODAY?
WHO WILL BE SPEAKING TODAY?
>> YOUR HONOR, INITIALLY THEY
HAVE ASKED ME AND ARE HOPING
THEY HAVE THE STRENGTH TO
SPEAK, BUT IF THEY DO NOT, THEY
HAVE WRITTEN OUT STATEMENTS AND
ASKED ME TO FINISH FOR THEM.
>> WHO WOULD LIKE TO GO
FIRST?>> IF I COULD START, YOUR
HONOR.
ON BEHALF OF THEM AND THE
COMMUNITY WE THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THE RECOGNITION
UNDER THE VICTIM BILL OF
RIGHTS.
WE COME TODAY AS THE
GRANDPARENTS AND THE PARENT OF
THE DAUGHTER AND CHILDREN WHOSE
LIVES WERE TAKEN IN THIS CASE.
WE ARE NOT HERE TO ASK FOR
LENIENCY AND WE ARE NOT IN ANY
WAY CONDONING OR TOLERATING THE
CRIME THAT HAS OCCURRED AND THE
PAIN THAT HAS BEEN CAUSED.
WE JOIN IN OUR DAUGHTER-IN-LAW
AND GRANDCHILDREN'S FAMILY
SAYING THIS SHOULD NEVER HAVE
HAPPENED.
THIS IS NOT CONDONE A BOWL.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE WILL NEVER
GET OVER WE APPRECIATE THE
CONSIDERATION AND THE FAMILIES
THAT HAVE LOST EVERYONE.
WE APPRECIATE THAT THEY BEGGED
FOR CHRISTOPHER'S LIFE.
WE AGREE AND ECHO WHAT THEY
HAVE SAID THAT IT IS NOT HIS
PLACE TO TAKE ANYONE'S LIFE NOR
WOULD IT BE OUR PLACE AS A
COMMUNITY TO TAKE HIS LIFE.
WE THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
AND FOR EVERY CONSIDERATION AND
EFFORT THAT HAS BEEN PUT OUT.
THE PROSECUTION IN THIS CASE
HAS, IN FACT, RESPECTED THE
VICTIMS BILL OF RIGHTS AND
EXPLAINED THAT THE INFORMATION
THAT MY CLIENTS HAD AT THE TIME
THEY WERE INTERVIEWED WAS NOT
CORRECT.
THEY WERE MISINFORMED AND THEY
WERE SEARCHING FOR ANSWERS AND
THEY WERE NOT INTENDING TO
CAUSE PAIN TO ANYONE AND THEY
APPRECIATE THAT THE PROSECUTION
ANSWERED THE QUESTIONS AND GAVE
THEM THE TIME AND RESPECT AND
CONSIDERATION SO THAT THEY
COULD TELL THE COURT AND
EVERYONE IN THIS COMMUNITY THAT
THE INTERVIEW CONTENT WAS --
THAT THEY ACCEPT THAT THEIR SON
HAS DONE THIS AND THEY ACCEPT
THAT HE CHOSE TO PLEAD GUILTY
AND THAT HE REQUESTED THEIR
CONSENT AND AGREEMENT FOR LIFE
SENTENCE.
THEY APPRECIATE THAT HE IS
GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE
THAT LIFE SENTENCE.
IT IS HIS RESPONSIBILITY AND
HIS SENTENCE AND IT IS NOT
ENOUGH TO MAKE UP FOR WHAT HAS
BEEN DONE.
WE UNDERSTAND AND WE JOIN THE
FAMILY IN THAT WE HAVE
QUESTIONS.
WE DON'T KNOW HOW SUCH A THING
COULD HAVE HAPPENED OR THAT A
MAN WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR RAISING
WIFE WOULD TAKE THE STEPS THAT
HE DID AND THAT HE WOULD
DISREGARD THEIR BODIES AND THE
LOVE HE HAD FOR THEM AND THEY
HAD FOR HIM AND EVERYONE ELSE
AND TAKE THE GESTURES AND PUT
THIS COMMUNITY THROUGH THE
INVESTIGATION AND DISCOVERY AND
RESPONSIBILITY OF BRINGING
JUSTICE.
WE DO NOT UNDERSTAND THAT AND
WE DO NOT THINK IT WAS
APPROPRIATE AND WE CANNOT BEGIN
TO THINK THAT AN EXPLANATION
WILL EVER JUSTIFY IT.
MY CLIENTS INDICATE THAT THEY
UNDERSTAND THAT A FULL
OPPORTUNITY FOR A CONFESSION
WITH ALL OF THE RESPONSIBILITY
AND ACCOUNTABILITY HAS NOT
ACCORD AND THEY SUPPORT THE
FAMILY AND THE REQUEST THAT
THAT HAPPENS IF NOT TODAY, BUT
AT AN APPROPRIATE TIME AND
APPROPRIATE MANNER SO THAT
EVERYONE CAN HAVE PEACE TO
UNDERSTAND TO THE BEST OF THEIR
ABILITY THE DETAILS THAT THEY
NEED AND TO HAVE THEIR
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
AND BY GIVING THIS OPPORTUNITY
OF A LIFE SENTENCE, WE HOPE
THAT HE EMBRACES THAT MOMENT
AND THAT HAD THE DEATH PENALTY
BEEN PURSUED IT WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE
ACCOUNTABLE AND TO GIVE A FULL
CONFESSION AND HAD THE DEATH
PENALTY BEEN SOUGHT, COUNSEL
WOULD HAVE FOUGHT FOR HIS LIFE
AND THE PROSECUTORS WOULD HAVE
BEEN ENGAGED IN A MULTI-YEAR
BATTLE, THE FAMILIES WOULD HAVE
BEEN TORN APART IN THIS
COMMUNITY WOULD HAVE HAD TO
SUBSIDIZE THIS AND ENDURE IT
AND WE HAVE SO MUCH ILLNESS
THAT DID NOT HAPPEN.
WE WOULD STRONGLY ENCOURAGE
CHRISTOPHER WATTS TO GET THAT
FULL CONFESSION IN THE TONE AND
TIMING HE THINKS APPROPRIATE
WITH THE GUIDANCE OF HIS
COUNSEL.
WE FEEL IT WOULD BE HELPFUL AND
APPROPRIATE TO EASE THE PAIN
AND SUFFERING.
BUT WE ALSO SAY THAT WE DO NOT
THINK THERE IS ANYTHING THAT HE
CAN SAY THAT WILL EVER ACCOUNT
FOR HIS BEHAVIOR.
THERE IS NOTHING THAT CAN BE
DONE TO CURE THE HARM HE HAS
CAUSED, AND HE HAS THE
RESPONSIBILITY TO SERVE HIS
SENTENCE WITH DIGNITY AND WITH
REGARD FOR EVERYONE AND TO SPEND
EVERY BREATH HE HAS LEFT IN
ATONEMENT FOR WHAT HE HAS DONE.
>> IF I COULD HAVE YOU STATE
YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD.
>> CINDY WATTS.>> THANK YOU.
>> I AM THE GRANDMOTHER OF TWO
BEAUTIFUL GRANDDAUGHTERS, BELLA
AND CATHERINE AND I'M ALSO THE
MOTHER OF CHRISTOPHER WATTS, WHO
I WILL BE DIRECTING MOST OF MY
STATEMENT TO.
I WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN BY
RECOGNIZING THE HORROR OF THIS
CRIME AND ACKNOWLEDGING THE
DEVASTATING LOSS THAT BOTH
FAMILIES HAVE FACED.
OUR FAMILIES HAVE BEEN
IRREPARABLY BROKEN BY THE
NEEDLESS DEATHS OF SHANANN,
BELLA AND CELESTE.
THIS IS SOMETHING WE WILL NEVER
GET OVER.
WE WILL ALWAYS MOURN THE LOSS
OF OUR FAMILY AND WE ARE UNITED
IN OUR GRIEF.
I AM STILL STRUGGLING TO
UNDERSTAND HOW AND WHY THIS
TRAGEDY OCCURRED.
I MAY NEVER BE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND AND ACCEPT THIS,
THAT I PRAY FOR PEACE AND
HEALING FOR ALL OF US.
AND NOW TO MY SON, CHRISTOPHER.
I HAVE KNOWN YOU SINCE THE DAY
YOU WERE BORN AND I HAVE
WATCHED YOU GROW FROM A QUIET
AND SWEET CURIOUS CHILD WHO
BELLA REMINDED ME SO MUCH OF TO
A YOUNG MAN WHO WORKED HARD IN
SPORTS AND MECHANICS TO ACHIEVE
YOUR GOALS.
YOU A GOOD FRIEND, BROTHER,
FATHER, AND A SON.
I HAVE LOVED YOU FROM THE
BEGINNING AND WE STILL LOVE YOU
NOW.
THIS MIGHT BE HARD FOR SOME TO
UNDERSTAND HOW I CAN SIT HERE
UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES AND
TELL YOU THAT WE ARE
HEARTBROKEN.
ALTHOUGH WE CANNOT IMAGINE WHAT
LED US TO THIS DAY.
BUT WE LOVE YOU AND MAYBE YOU
CANNOT BELIEVE THAT EITHER. AS
THE LORD SAID IN JEREMIAH,
3:31, I HAVE LOVED YOU WITH AN
EVERLASTING LOVE AND THEREFORE
I HAVE CONTINUED MY
FAITHFULNESS TO YOU.
AND AS YOUR MOTHER I HAVE
ALWAYS LOVED YOU AND I STILL
DO.
I HATE WHAT HAS HAPPENED.
YOUR FATHER AND SISTER AND I
ARE STRUGGLING TO UNDERSTAND
WHY.
BUT WE WILL REMAIN FAITHFUL AS
YOUR FAMILY JUST AS GOD REMAINS
FAITHFUL BECAUSE OF HIS
UNCONDITIONAL LOVE FOR US ALL.
WE LOVE YOU.
WE FORGIVE YOU.
>> THANK YOU.>> JUDGE, IF I
COULD READ MR. WATTS A
STATEMENT?
MY NAME IS RON WATTS AND I'M
THE GRANDFATHER OF BELLA, AND
CELESTE, AND NICO.
AND I'M THE FATHER OF SHANNON.
I AM THE FATHER OF CHRISTOPHER
WATTS AS WELL.
ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT
THINGS I HAVE DONE IN MY LIFE
IS TO RAISE MY CHILDREN AND TO
WATCH AS THEY STARTED THEIR OWN
FAMILIES.
I SPENT MANY YEARS COACHING
LITTLE LEAGUE AND TALKING TO MY
SON AND TAKING HIM TO THE RACES
AND SHARING MY LOVE AND
KNOWLEDGE OF CARS WITH HIM.
HE WAS JUST AS INVOLVED WITH
HIS GIRLS.
I BELIEVE HE LOVES HIS GIRLS.
I KNOW HE DOES.
THIS TRAGEDY HAS IMPACTED MY
FAMILY IN SO MANY WAYS.
BEYOND LOSING MORE GRANDCHILDREN
, AND OUR BELOVED DAUGHTER-IN-
LAW, WE ARE FORCED TO QUESTION
EVERYTHING.
WE STILL DO NOT HAVE ALL OF THE
ANSWERS AND I HOPE ONE DAY,
CHRISTOPHER, YOU CAN HELP US.
CHRIS, I WANT TO TALK TO YOU AS
A FATHER. YOU ARE HERE TODAY
ACCEPTING RESPONSIBILITY, BUT I
WANT TO TELL YOU THIS NOW.
I LOVE YOU.
NOTHING WILL EVER CHANGE THAT,
AND I WANT YOU TO FIND PEACE
AND TODAY IS YOUR FIRST STEP.
THE BIBLE SAYS IF WE CONFESS
OUR SINS GOD IS FAITHFUL AND
JUST AND WILL FORGIVE US.
CHRIS, I FORGIVE YOU AND YOUR
SISTER FORGIVES YOU AND WE WILL
NEVER ABANDON YOU AND WE LOVE
YOU.
DAD.
JUDGE, THANK YOU FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADDRESS THE
COURT.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER
STATUTORY VICTIMS UNDER THE
VICTIMS RIGHTS ACT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE A STATEMENT TODAY?
>> YOUR HONOR, I AM NOT AWARE
OF ANY.
>> FOR THE RECORD, NO ONE IS
RAISING THEIR HANDS.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO PRESENT ANY
EVIDENCE?
>> I HAVE NO EVIDENCE, YOUR
HONOR.>> THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE ANY STATEMENTS YOU
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE ON BEHALF OF
THE PROSECUTION?
>> YES, PLEASE.
>> YOUR HONOR, THERE ARE NO
WORDS TO ATTIC THE --
ADEQUATELY DESCRIBE THE ACTIONS
THAT BRING US BEFORE THE COURT.
I'M NOT GOING TO TRY TO EXPRESS
THE HORROR ARE THE PAIN AND
SUFFERING THAT THE DEFENDANT
HAS CAUSED TO THESE FAMILIES IN
THESE COMMUNITIES AND TO ALL
WHO ARE PART OF THIS
INVESTIGATION.
I DO WANT TO SPEND A FEW MINUTES
SHARING WITH THE COURT THE
DETAILS OF THE CRIME AND GIVE
ONLY HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
REVIEW THE AFFIDAVIT AND A FEW
FACTS THAT HAVE BEEN OFFERED TO
THE COURT IN THE PLEADINGS THAT
HAVE BEEN FILED.
THE QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
SCREENED OUT TO ANYONE WHO
WOULD LISTEN SINCE AUGUST 13,
2018, OR WHY, AND HOW?
WHY DID THIS HAVE TO HAPPEN AND
HOW COULD A SEEMINGLY NORMAL
HUSBAND AND FATHER ANNIHILATE
HIS ENTIRE FAMILY AND FOR WHAT?
THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS THAT
ONLY ONE INDIVIDUAL IN THIS
COURTROOM ARE ON THIS PLANET
KNOWS THE ANSWERS TO.
I FULLY EXPECT WE WILL NOT
RECEIVE THE ANSWERS TO THESE
QUESTIONS TODAY NOR WILL WE HAD
ANY POINT IN THE FUTURE.
I DO NOT EXPECT THAT HE WILL
EVER TELL THE TRUTH ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED OR WHY.
EVEN IF HE DID, THERE IS NO
RATIONAL WAY THAT ANY HUMAN
BEING COULD FIND THOSE ANSWERS
ACCEPTABLE RESPONSES TO SUCH
HORRIFIC QUESTIONS.
THE BEST WE CAN DO IS TRY TO
PIECE TOGETHER AN UNDERSTANDING
FROM THE EVIDENCE THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO US.
AND THE EVIDENCE TELLS US THIS.
THE DEFENDANT COLDLY AND
DELIBERATELY ENDED FOUR LIVES.
NOT IN A FIT OF RAGE AND NOT BY
WAY OF ACCIDENT BUT IN A
CALCULATED AND SICKENING MANNER.
SHOULD AND WAS 34 YEARS OLD AND
HAD MARRIED THE DEFENDANT IN
NOVEMBER 2012.
OVER THE WEEKEND SHE HAD BEEN
ANY WORK CONFERENCE IN PHOENIX,
ARIZONA, AND RETURNED HOME IN
THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF
AUGUST 13.
WE KNOW SHE GOT HOME AT 1:45 IN
THE MORNING AND THE CAMERA
SHOWS HER ARRIVING HOME FROM
THE AIRPORT.
SHORTLY THEREAFTER, AT LEAST
ACCORDING TO THE DEFENDANT,
HEY HAD AN EMOTIONAL
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE STATE OF
THEIR MARRIAGE AND ABOUT WHAT
THEIR LIVES WOULD LOOK LIKE
GOING FORWARD.
WHAT WAS SAID DURING THAT
EMOTIONAL CONVERSATION ONLY HE
KNOWS.
WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT SHORTLY
AFTER THAT THE DEFENDANT
STRANGLED HER TO DEATH WITH HIS
OWN HANDS.
WE KNOW THAT HE SLOWLY TOOK HER
LIFE THE MORNING OF AUGUST 13th.
WE KNOW THIS WAS NOT DONE IN AN
UNCONTROLLED, VENGEFUL MANNER
THAT HE DESCRIBED TO AGENTS OF
THE CBI AND FBI.
IF THAT WERE THE CASE YOU WOULD
EXPECT TO SEE VICIOUS HORRIBLE
BRUISING ABOUT HER NECK,
SHOULDERS, AND FACE.
AND YOU EXPECT TO SEE THE BONE
IN HER NECK BROKEN AND YOU
EXPECT TO SEE SOME KIND OF
DEFENSIVE WOUNDS ON HIS BODY AS
SHE STRUGGLED AND FOUGHT FOR
HER OWN LIFE.
NONE OF THOSE ARE PRESENT. THE
ONLY INJURIES THAT WERE ON
SHANANN'S BODIES  WERE FINGER
MARK BRUISING TO THE RIGHT SIDE
OF HER NECK.
WE KNOW THAT EXPERTS WILL TELL
US THAT IT TAKES 2 TO 4 MINUTES
TO STRANGLE SOMEONE TO DEATH
MANUALLY WITH THEIR OWN HANDS.
THE HORROR THAT SHE FELT IS THE
MAN THAT SHE LOVED WRAPPED HIS
HANDS AROUND HER THROAT AND
CHOKED THE LIFE OUT OF HER MUST
HAVE BEEN UNIMAGINABLE.
EVEN WORSE, WHAT MUST BELLA AND
CELESTE MUST HAVE EXPERIENCED AS
THEIR FATHER, THE ONE MAN ON
THIS PLANET WHO WAS SUPPOSED TO
NURTURE AND PROTECT THEM WAS
SNUFFING OUT THEIR LIVES.
THEY BOTH DIED FROM SMOTHERING.
LET ME SAY THAT AGAIN.
THE MAN SEATED TO MY RIGHT
SMOTHERED HIS DAUGHTERS.
WHY?
IMAGINE THE HORROR IN BELLA'S
MIND AS HER FATHER TOOK HER
LAST BREATH AWAY.
YOUR HONOR, UNDERSTAND, THAT
BELLA FOUGHT BACK FOR HER LIFE.
THE CONNECTIVE TISSUE BETWEEN
HER UPPER LIP AND HER GUM HAD
AN INCH -- A CENTIMETER AND HALF
LACERATION.
SHE BIT HER TONGUE MULTIPLE
TIMES.
BEFORE SHE DIED.
SHE FOUGHT BACK FOR HER LIFE.
CELESTE HAD NO SUCH INJURIES.
IN FACT, SHE HAD NO EXTERNAL
INJURIES AT ALL.
BUT ACCORDING TO THE MEDICAL
EXAMINER SHE WAS SMOTHERED
NONETHELESS.
THE DEFENDANT THEN METHODICALLY
AND CALMLY LOADED THEIR BODIES
INTO HIS WORK TRUCK, NOT IN A
HASTY OR DISORGANIZED WAY.
HE WAS SEEN FROM THE NEIGHBORS
DOORBELL CAMERA BACKING HIS
TRUCK INTO THE DRIVEWAY, GOING
BACK AND FORTH INTO THE HOUSE
AND BACK OUT TO THE TRUCK THREE
DIFFERENT TIMES.
ONE TIME FOR EACH OF THEIR
BODIES.
HE THEN DROVE THEM AWAY FROM
THE FAMILY HOME ONE FINAL TIME
INTENT ON HIDING ANY EVIDENCE
OF THE CRIMES THAT HE HAD JUST
COMMITTED.
IN ONE FINAL SIGN OF
CALLOUSNESS FOR HIS WIFE, HIS
DAUGHTERS, AND THEIR UNBORN SON
AND THE REMAINS, HE DROVE THEM
TO A LOCATION HE THOUGHT NO ONE
WOULD EVER FIND THEM.
TO ONE OF THE OIL TANKERS THAT
HE WAS FAMILIAR WITH.
HE KNEW THIS WAS SAFE.
HE HAD TEXTED A COWORKER THE
NIGHT BEFORE SAYING I WILL HEAD
OUT TO THAT SITE AND I WILL
TAKE CARE OF IT.
HE HAD CAREFULLY ENSURED THAT
HE WOULD BE ALONE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE PLANES TO DEPOSIT THE
REMAINS OF HIS FAMILY IN A
PLACE HE HOPED THEY WOULD NEVER
BE FOUND.
IN ONE FINAL MEASURE OF
DISRESPECT FOR THE FAMILY HE
ONCE HAD HE ENSURED THAT THEY
WOULD NOT BE TOGETHER EVEN IN
DEATH, OR SO HE THOUGHT.
HE DISPOSED OF THEM IN
DIFFERENT LOCATIONS.
HE BURIED SHANANN IN A SHALLOW
GRAVE AWAY FROM THE OIL TANKS.
BELLA AND CELESTE WERE THROWN
AWAY IN THE OIL TANKS AT THIS
FACILITY.
DIFFERENT TANKS SO THEY WOULD
NOT BE TOGETHER IN DEATH.
IMAGINE THIS, YOUR HONOR, THIS
DEFENDANT TOOK THOSE LITTLE
GIRLS AND PUT THEM YOUR HATCH
AT THE TOP OF AN OIL TANK EIGHT
INCHES IN DIAMETER.
BELLA HAD SCRATCHES ON HER LEFT
BUTTOCKS FROM BEING SHUT
THROUGH THIS WHOLE.
BLONDE HAIR WAS FOUND ON THE
EDGE OF ONE OF THESE HATCHES.
THE DEFENDANT TOLD
INVESTIGATORS THAT THE TANK
SEEMED EMPTY YEARS THAN CELESTE
BECAUSE OF THE SOUND THAT THE
SPLASHES MADE.
THESE WERE HIS DAUGHTERS.
SIGNIFICANTLY, WHEN HIS
COWORKERS ARRIVED LATER THAT
MORNING TO A PERSON THEY
DESCRIBED HIM AS ACTING
NORMALLY.
IT WAS A NORMAL WORKDAY.
EVEN WHILE HIS DAUGHTERS SANK
IN THE OIL NOT FAR AWAY FROM
HIM.
AND HIS EFFORTS AT DECEPTION
TRULY BEGAN. WE HAVE ALL SEEN
THE EMOTIONLESS INTERVIEWS THAT
THE DEFENDANT GETS TO THE LOCAL
MEDIA ASKING FOR HELP IN
LOCATING HIS FAMILY.
WE WATCHED AS HE CLAIMED THAT
THE HOUSE WAS EMPTY WITHOUT
THEM AND THAT HE HOPED THAT
THEY WERE SOMEWHERE SAFE AND HE
WANTED THEM TO COME HOME.
HE TOLD INVESTIGATORS THEY WERE
AT HOME SLEEPING WHEN HE LEFT
FOR WORK THAT MORNING AND THAT
SHANANN HAD TOLD HIM THAT SHE
WAS TAKING THE GIRLS  TO A
FRIENDS HOUSE THAT DAY.
WHAT IS STRIKING ABOUT THIS
CASE BE ON THE HORSE I HAVE
DESCRIBED TO YOU IS THE NUMBER
OF COLLATERAL VICTIMS HE
CREATED BY HIS ACTIONS.
WHILE HE STOOD IN FRONT OF
TELEVISION CAMERAS ASKING FOR
THE SAFE RETURN OF HIS FAMILY
SCORES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS, NEIGHBORS, FRIENDS
AND FAMILIES SCOURED THE AREA.
THEY TEXTED HIM BEGGING FOR ANY
INFORMATION AND SENT HIM THERE
BEST WISHES, AND ALL THE WHILE
HE HID WHAT HE HAD DONE.
THE LIST OF INDIRECT VICTIMS
DOES NOT AND THERE.
THINK OF THE FIREFIGHTERS IN
THE COLORADO STATE PATROL
EXPERTS WHO HAD TO BE CALLED
UPON TO PULL THOSE LITTLE GIRLS
OUT OF THOSE OIL TANKS OR THE
CORNER AND EMPLOYEES WHO HAD TO
CONDUCT THE AUTOPSIES OR THE
VICTIM ASSISTANCE WHO ATTEMPTED
TO EASE THE SUFFERING OF THOSE
AFFECTED.
ALL OF THIS, YOUR HONOR, FOR
WHAT?
WHY?
WHY DID THIS HAVE TO HAPPEN?
HIS MOTIVE WAS SIMPLE, YOUR
HONOR.
HE HAD A DESIRE FOR A FRESH
START AND TO BEGIN A
RELATIONSHIP WITH A NEW LOVE
THAT OVERPOWERED ALL DECENCY
AND FEELINGS FOR HIS WIFE AND
DAUGHTERS AND UNBORN SON.
WHILE SHANANN  TEXTED HIM OVER
AND OVER AGAIN IN THE DAYS AND
WEEKS LEADING UP TO HER DEATH
ATTEMPTING TO SAVE HER
MARRIAGE, THE DEFENDANT PUT
PICTURES OF HIS GIRLFRIEND INTO
HIS PHONE AND CENTER TEXT
MESSAGES AT ALL HOURS OF THE
NIGHT.
HE WAS SEARCHING THE INTERNET
FOR SECLUDED VACATION SPOTS TO
TAKE HIS NEW GIRLFRIEND.
AND WHILE SHANANN  TOOK HER
GIRLS TO VISIT THE FAMILY, THE
DEFENDANT WENT TO CAR MUSEUMS
AND THE SAND DUNES WITH HIS NEW
GIRLFRIEND.
THE STARK CONTRAST BETWEEN THE
SUBJECT OF THEIR INTERNET AND
TEXT CONTENT IS STUNNING.
EVEN THE MORNING AFTER HE
KILLED THEM AND DISPOSED OF
THEIR BODIES, HE MADE PHONE
CALLS.
ONE WAS TO THE SCHOOL WHERE THE
GIRLS WERE SUPPOSED TO START
TELLING THE SCHOOL THAT THE
GIRLS WOULD NOT BE COMING TO
SCHOOL ANYMORE AND THEY WERE
BEING UNENROLLED, PRESUMABLY TO
GIVE HIM MORE TIME BEFORE LAW
ENFORCEMENT NOTIFICATION ABOUT
THEM GOING MISSING.
HE CONTACTED A REALTOR TO START
DISCUSSING THE SELLING OF HIS
HOME AND HE TEXTED WITH HIS
GIRLFRIEND ABOUT THE FUTURE.
NONE OF THIS ANSWERS THE
QUESTION OF WHY.
IF HE WAS THAT HAPPY AND WANTED
A NEW START, GET A DIVORCE.
YOU DON'T ANNIHILATE YOUR FAMILY
AND THROW THEM AWAY LIKE
GARBAGE.
WHY DID THEY HAVE TO LOSE THEIR
LIVES IN ORDER FOR HIM TO GET
WHAT HE WANTED?
YOUR HONOR, JUSTICE DEMANDS THE
MAXIMUM SENTENCE UNDER THE
AGREEMENT REACHED BY THE
PARTIES.
AS YOU WILL RECALL IT CALLS FOR
LIFE SENTENCES AS TO SHANANN,
BELLA, AND CELESTE, AND ALL OF
THOSE TO RUN CONSECUTIVELY TO
EACH OTHER.
IT CALLS FOR THE COUNT OF
UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF A
PREGNANCY TO RUN CONSECUTIVELY
TO COUNTS, -- COUNTS ONE, TWO,
AND THREE.
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THE THE
EFFORTS I HAVE DESCRIBED
MANDATE THAT THE SENTENCES FOR
COUNTS 7 8, AND 9 BE THE
MAXIMUM OF 12 YEARS AND THAT
THE SENTENCES RUN CONSECUTIVELY
TO EACH OTHER.
IT IS CLEAR THAT EACH OF THESE
ACTS -- THAT THESE WERE NOT THE
SUBJECT OF ONE ACT BUT EACH OIL
TANK THAT HE WALKED UP TO WITH
HIS DAUGHTERS BODIES IN THE
HOLE THAT HE DUG FOR HIS WIFE
AND UNBORN SON MANDATE A
MNDATORY CONSECUTIVE SENTENCE.
IT HAS BEEN ALLUDED TO THIS
MORNING BUT THE DEFENDANT WAS
ELIGIBLE FOR THE DEATH PENALTY
IN THIS CASE UNDER THE EXISTING
LAW IN THE STATE OF COLORADO.
AS YOU HEARD, SHANANN'S FAMILY
OPPOSED MY OFFICE SEEKING THE
DEATH PENALTY AND BEING BOUND
TO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM
FOR THE NEXT SEVERAL DECADES.
THAT IS IN LARGE PART WHY WE
HAVE REACHED THE AGREEMENT THAT
WE HAVE.
FOUR LIVES WERE LOST AT THE
HANDS OF THE DEFENDANT ON
AUGUST 13 FOR REASONS WE WILL
NEVER FULLY UNDERSTAND.
IN THE END THE RZUCEK FAMILY
WAS MORE MERCIFUL TO HIM THAN
HE WAS TO HIS WIFE AND
DAUGHTERS AND UNBORN SON.
PRISON FOR THE REMAINDER OF HIS
LIFE IS EXACTLY WHERE HE BELONGS
FOR MURDERING HIS ENTIRE
FAMILY.
THANK YOU.
>> ARE YOU SEEKING 91 DAYS TO
FILE A REQUEST FOR RESTITUTION?
>> I AM, YOUR HONOR.>> WE BE
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF YOUR
CLIENTS?
GOOD MORNING.
>> GOOD MORNING, YOUR HONOR.
MR. WATTS HAS ASKED US TO SHARE
THIS MORNING THAT HE IS
DEVASTATED BY ALL OF THIS.
AND ALTHOUGH HE UNDERSTANDS
THAT WORDS ARE HOLLOW AT THIS
POINT, HE IS SINCERELY SORRY
FOR ALL OF THIS.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
MR. WATTS, AS I INDICATED WHEN
WE BEGAN, YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO
MAKE A STATEMENT IF YOU CHOOSE
TO.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO MAKE
STATEMENT?>> NO, SIR.
>> THANK YOU.
THE COURT HAS CONSIDERED THE
ARGUMENTS MADE BY THE ATTORNEYS.
AND THE COURT HAS CONSIDERED
STATEMENTS MADE BY THE VICTIMS
IN THIS CASE.
COURSE IS GOING TO FIND THAT
THE PLEA AGREEMENT IS FAIR AND
REASONABLE UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES. I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE RZUCEK  FAMILY
AS WELL AS THE WATTS FAMILY
SHOWING MERCY ON MR. WATTS IS
UNDERSTOOD. I RESPECT THAT
DECISION TO REQUEST THAT THE
DISTRICT ATTORNEY NOT SEEK THE
DEATH PENALTY IN THIS CASE.
SO THE COURT IS GOING TO ACCEPT
THIS PLEA-BARGAIN UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
WORDS THAT COME TO MIND WHEN I
HEAR THE EVIDENCE IN THIS CASE
ARE SENSELESS CRIME AND THE
VICIOUSNESS OF THE CRIME.
AND EQUALLY AGGRAVATING IN THIS
COURT'S DETERMINATION IS THE
DESPICABLE ACT OF DISPOSING OF
THE BODIES AND THE MANNER IN
WHICH THEY WERE DONE IN THIS
CASE.
I HAVE BEEN A JUDICIAL OFFICER
FOR STARTING MY 17th YEAR AND I
COULD OBJECTIVELY SAY THAT THIS
IS PERHAPS THE MOST INHUMANE AND
VICIOUS CRIME THAT I'VE HANDLED
OUT OF THE THOUSANDS OF CASES
THAT I HAVE SEEN.
AND NOTHING LESS THAT A MAXIMUM
SENTENCE WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
AND ANYTHING LESS THAN THE
MAXIMUM SENTENCE WOULD
DEPRECIATE THE SERIOUSNESS OF
THIS OFFENSE.
SO THE COURT IS GOING TO
SENTENCE MR. WATTS HAS FOLLOWS.
WITH REGARD TO COUNT ONE,
MURDER IN THE FIRST DEGREE AS
IT RELATES TO SHANANN WATTS,
THE COURT IS GOING TO SENTENCE
YOU, SIR, TO A LIFE SENTENCE IN
THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS FOLLOWED -- EXCUSE
ME -- WITH NO POSSIBILITY OF
PAROLE.
AND THAT IS GOING TO RUN
CONSECUTIVELY TO ALL BUT COUNTS
3 AND 4. WITH REGARD TO COUNT
2, AS IT RELATES TO MURDER IN
THE FIRST DEGREE WITH BELLA,
THE COURT IS GOING TO SENTENCE
YOU TO LIFE IN THE COLORADO
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS WITH
NO POSSIBILITY OF PAROLE. WITH
REGARD TO COUNT 3, THE COURT IS
GOING TO SENTENCE YOU AS A
RELATES TO CELESTE TO LIFE IN
THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS WITH NO POSSIBILITY
OF PAROLE.
WITH REGARD TO COUNTS 4 AND 5
RELATING TO BELLA AND CELESTE
AS A DIFFERENT THEORY OF FIRST-
DEGREE MURDER, THE COURT IS
GOING TO SENTENCE YOU TO LIFE
IN THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS AND LEGALLY, THE
SENTENCES MUST RUN CONCURRENTLY
IS A DIFFERENT THEORY OF FIRST-
DEGREE MURDER.
RECOGNIZING THE UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF PREGNANCY FOR
THE UNBORN CHILD THAT HAS BEEN
NAMED NICO, THE COURT BELIEVES
THAT THE MAXIMUM SENTENCE OF 48
YEARS WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO
RUN CONSECUTIVE TO THE OTHER
CHARGES.
AND AN ADDITIONAL MANDATORY
PAROLE PERIOD  OF THREE YEARS
AS SET FORTH BY STATUTE.
WITH REGARD TO COUNT 7, AS IT
RELATES TO TAMPERING WITH A
DECEASED BODY AS WELL AS COUNTS
8 AND 9, EACH A CLASS 3 FELONY,
THE COURT WILL IMPOSE A MAXIMUM
SENTENCE OF 12 YEARS EACH FOR
THOSE COUNTS TO RUN
CONSECUTIVELY TO THE OTHER
COUNTS.
COURT IS GOING TO ORDER THAT
STATUTORY FEES BE PAID AND
COURT COSTS.
THE COURT WILL GRANT THE
PROSECUTION 91 DAYS TO FILE A
NOTICE OF RESTITUTION. AND THAT
WOULD BE THE SENTENCE OF THE
COURT.
WE WILL SHORTLY BE IN RECESS. I
WOULD RESPECTFULLY ASK THE
PARTIES THAT YOU REMAIN IN YOUR
SEAT.
THERE IS A PLAN BY THE DEPUTIES
ON ALLOWING PEOPLE TO EXIT THE
COURTROOM.
SO PLEASE REMAIN SEATED UNTIL
YOUR AUTHORIZED TO LEAVE THE
COURTROOM BASED ON THE DIRECTION
OF THE DEPUTIES.
DEPUTIES, I WOULD RESPECTFULLY
ASK THAT YOU TAKE THIS
DEFENDANT INTO CUSTODY AND HAVE
HIM SERVE THE REST OF HIS LIFE
IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS.
WE ARE IN RECESS.
>> PLEASE RISE.
>> YOU HAVE JUST BEEN WATCHING
THE SENTENCING HEARING FOR
CHRISTOPHER WATTS.
HE HAS BEEN SENTENCE IN THE
KILLING OF HIS YOUNG DAUGHTERS,
HIS PREGNANT WIFE, AND NINE
COUNTS BY MY COUNT.
THE HEADLINE.
A LIFE SENTENCE AND NO
POSSIBILITY OF PAROLE FOR ALL
OF THE COUNTS WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF COUNT NUMBER 7, TAMPERING
WITH A DECEASED BODY.
YOU WILL CALL THE DETAILS OF
THIS CASE.
HE PLEADED GUILTY ON NOVEMBER 6
TWO THE THREE CHARGES OF MURDER
IN THE DEATH OF HIS WIFE
SHANANN  AND HIS YOUNG DAUGHTERS
, AND ALSO THE UNBORN CHILD,
WHICH THE FAMILY HAD NICKNAMED
NICO.
THAT WAS A COUNT THAT WAS
CONSIDERED TO BE UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF LIFE AND SO NOW
THIS MAN WAS SPENT THE REST OF
HIS LIFE IN PRISON.
YOU COULD LISTEN TO THE JUDGE
SAYING THAT IN ALL HIS YEARS ON
THE BENCH HE HAD NOT SEEN A
CRIME AS HEINOUS AS THIS ONE.
THE TESTIMONY AND STATEMENTS
GIVEN BY FAMILY MEMBERS OF
SHANANN WATTS, INCLUDING HER
FATHER WHO ESSENTIALLY SAID YOU
DON'T KNOW WHAT LOVE IS AND
CALLED HIM A MONSTER. IN FACT,
HE CALLED HIM A HEARTLESS
MONSTER AND THE THOUGHT THAT HE
MIGHT GET AWAY WITH THIS, HE
THOUGHT HE COULD GET AWAY WITH
THIS.
HE SPOKE WORDS OF LOVE TO HIS
DAUGHTER AND SAID THAT HE LOVES
HER AND THAT HE IS SUPER
EXCITED TO SEE JUSTICE FOR HER
AND HER CHILDREN.
SHANANN WATTS BROTHER SPOKE AND
HE HAD SOMEONE READ HIS
STATEMENT.
IT WAS VERY MOVING TESTIMONY
AND STATEMENTS THAT WERE GIVEN
BY FAMILY MEMBERS.
OUR CBS NEWS LEGAL ANALYST IS
JOINING ME TO TALK ABOUT THIS.
THIS PRETTY MUCH WENT AS
EXPECTED.
BUT STILL LISTENING TO THE
FAMILY MEMBERS GIVING THEIR
STATEMENTS, NO ONE -- I THINK
FOR THE JUDGE AND FAMILY
MEMBERS, EVERYONE GATHERED IN
THAT COURTROOM, BUT WE STILL DO
NOT UNDERSTAND IS WHY.
THERE WAS AN AFFAIR AND MONEY
ISSUES, BUT THE MONSTROSITY OF
THIS CRIME DOES NOT SEEM TO
LINE UP WITH WHAT WAS GOING ON
IN THEIR LIVES AND WE WILL
NEVER REALLY KNOW THAT.>> THAT
IS CORRECT.
WE NEVER WILL REALLY KNOW.
UNLESS THIS DEFENDANT DECIDES
AT SOME POINT THAT HE WANTS TO
GIVE AN INTERVIEW FOR RADIO OR
TELEVISION THAT HE WILL WANT TO
TELL HIS STORY OTHERWISE WE
WILL NOT KNOW THE FULL FACTS OF
WHAT WOULD MOTIVATE ANYBODY TO
COMMIT SUCH A HEINOUS CRIME.
THE ONLY GOOD THING, IF THERE
IS A GOOD THING, IS THAT THE
FAMILY MEMBERS GOT TO SAY WHAT
THEY NEEDED TO SAY AND I THINK
THIS IS A PERFECT EXAMPLE OF
WHY ALL THE STATE AND FEDERAL
COURTS RECOGNIZE THE VALUE OF
VICTIM IMPACT STATEMENTS.
>> YES.
AND JUST FOR THE LEGALITIES
HERE.
A LIFE SENTENCE WITH NO
POSSIBILITY OF PAROLE.
CHRISTOPHER WATTS GOT LIFE
SENTENCES FOR ALL THE
INDIVIDUALS INCLUDING SHANANN,
AND'S -- AND THEY DECIDED TO
NAME THE UNBORN CHILD IN AND
THOSE RAN CONSECUTIVELY WITH
THE OTHER SENTENCES.>> THE PLEA-
BARGAIN WAS VERY THOROUGH AND
HE WAS GOING TO GET THREE
CONSECUTIVE LIFE SENTENCES.
WHY WOULD THEY BE CONSECUTIVE
IN ADDITION TO THE 48 YEARS IS
TO MAKE SURE THAT AT NO POINT
IN TIME COULD THERE EVER BE A
POSSIBILITY OF PAROLE.
AND THE FAMILY ALSO AGREED TO
THIS PLEA-BARGAIN, WHICH THEY
CERTAINLY HAD A RIGHT TO SAY
THEY WOULD OR WOULD NOT AGREE
TO, AT LEAST TO HAVE INFLUENCE
ON THE PROSECUTION.
BUT THEY AGREED TO THE PLEA-
BARGAIN FOR THE SIMPLE REASON
THAT NO ONE WANTED TO BE PUT
THROUGH A TRIAL WHERE WE WOULD
HAVE TO LIVE THROUGH THE STORY
AGAIN.
SO THIS PLEA-BARGAIN IS
VALUABLE TO BOTH SIDES.
IF HE DID NOT WANT TO DIE,
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO WOULD
RATHER DIE THAN SPEND THE REST
OF THEIR LIVES IN PRISON.
IF HE DID NOT WANT TO DIE, HE
GOT THE BENEFIT.
AND THE FAMILY CERTAINLY GOT TO
HAVE THEIR CATHARSIS AND THEIR
NEED TO SPEAK, WHICH I THINK IS
VALUABLE.
BUT ALSO THE FACT THAT THEY ARE
NOW GUARANTEED THAT HE WILL
NEVER BE OUTSIDE OF A PRISON
AGAIN.>> AND, FINALLY, THIS CASE
ATTRACTED NATIONAL ATTENTION
BECAUSE OF SOME OF THE THINGS
WE'VE JUST BEEN SHOWING YOU.
THE NUMEROUS SOCIAL MEDIA
VIDEOS THAT EXIST OF THE FAMILY
SMILING, LAUGHING, AND THE
DAUGHTERS SMILING AND LAUGHING.
ONE OF THE DAUGHTERS SAID, I
LOVE YOU, DADDY.
THIS CAPTIVATED THE NATION
BECAUSE NO ONE COULD UNDERSTAND
WHAT LED CHRISTOPHER WATTS TO
DO THE THINGS HE DID.
BUT HE KILLED HIS WIFE AND HE
KILLED HIS TWO YOUNG DAUGHTERS
AND YOU HEARD THE PROSECUTORS
SAYING THAT ONE OF THE
DAUGHTERS FOUGHT FOR THEIR
LIVES BECAUSE OF THE INJURIES
THEY SUSTAINED AS THEY WERE
BEING SMOTHERED TO DEATH.
AND HE HIRED AN OPERATOR AND
PLACED THE CHILDREN IN THESE
OIL CANISTERS AND DISPOSED OF
HIS WIFE'S BODY.
IT WAS HORRIFIC.
>> I WOULD SAY THIS WITHOUT
FEAR OF CONTRADICTION.
IN ADDITION TO THE DECADES OF
CRIMINAL LAW THAT I PRACTICED
ON BOTH SIDES, THERE WERE ALSO
THE YEARS THAT I'VE COVERED
HUNDREDS OF CASES, PARTICULARLY
FOR COURT TV AND WATCHED IN
GRAPHIC DETAIL AND LISTENED TO
THE DETAILS OF CRIMES AND I
WOULD SAY THAT THERE ARE VERY
FEW THAT COULD EVEN REMOTELY
APPROACH THE HORRIFIC NATURE OF
THIS TRAGEDY.>> RIKKI KLIEMAN,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR ANALYSIS.
WE APPRECIATE THAT.
>> WE ARE GOING TO TAKE A QUICK
BREAK.
MARK STRASSMANN IS ON THE
GROUND IN COLORADO AND HE WILL
HAVE A LOT MORE HERE AND MORE
ON THE CBS EVENING NEWS.
YOU'RE WATCHING CBSN.
>>> CHINA IS CRACKING DOWN ON
MUSLIMS AND ETHNIC GROUPS IN
THE WESTERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY'S.
OFFICIALS HAVE HAVE POISONED
PEOPLE WITH CONSERVATIVE
ISLAMIC TIES.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID PEOPLE THAT
SURRENDER WITHIN 30 DAYS WILL
BE TREATED WITH LENIENCY.>>
THERE IS GROWING INTERNATIONAL
OUTRAGE OF CHINA'S TREATMENT OF
LEADERS.
THEY HAVE SLAMMED BEIJING FOR
DETAINING AND SURVEILLING
MUSLIMS AND OTHER ETHNIC GROUPS
IN REEDUCATION CAMPS.
CHINA ARGUES THERE FIGHTING
TERRORISM AND EXTREMISM.
>>> PROTESTS ERUPTED IN HAITI
AFTER IT WAS CONCLUDED THAT $2
BILLION OF AID WAS MISUSED.
ACTIVISTS DEMANDED THE
GOVERNMENT BE HELD RESPONSIBLE
FOR USING THE MONEY.
THE SENATE FOUND $2 BILLION
FROM THE VENEZUELAN AID PROGRAM
WERE NOT USED PROPERLY.
>>> SIX PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
FIVE OTHERS INJURED DURING
PROTESTS.
MORE THAN 3000 OFFICERS WERE
DEPLOYED IN THE CAPITAL AND
OTHER SMALLER CITIES.>>> POPE
FRANCIS IS URGING GLOBAL ACTION
TO HELP THE POOR.
HE SAID PEOPLE IN NEED ARE
WEEPING BY THE WEALTHY BEAST
I'M WHAT BELONGS TO EVERYONE.
HE DEMANDED THAT PEOPLE HELP
THOSE IN NEED.
>> HE MADE REMARKS DURING MASS
AT ST. PETER'S BASILICA AND
INVITED 6000 PEOPLE AND
VOLUNTEERS TO CHURCH.
>>> I WILL SEE YOU AGAIN
TOMORROW MORNING AT 7 AM
EASTERN ON CBSN.>> TANYA RIVERO
TAKES OVER AFTER A SHORT BREAK.
YOU'RE STREAMING CBSN, CBS
NEWS.
ALWAYS ON.
.
>>> THIS IS EXTRAORDINARY.
THIS IS IMPORTANT.
>> THIS IS HISTORIC.
>> THIS IS SOME OF THE WORST OF
FLORENCE.
>> THIS HAS ALTERED YOUR LIFE.
>> THIS IS WHAT IT'S LIKE
COVERING A STORY IN CHINA.
>> THIS.
>>> NEARLY80 DEAD, AND HUNDREDS
UNACCOUNTED FOR, AND NOW RAIN
COULD HINDER THE SEARCH FOR
MORE FIRE VICTIMS IN
CALIFORNIA.
PLUS MORE BACKLASH FOR THE
MURDER OF JAMAL KHASHOGGI.
U.S. INTEL FINDS THE SAUDI
CROWN PRINCE LIKELY ORDERED THE
KILLING, AS THE U.S. FACES MORE
PRESSURE TO PUNISH THE KINGDOM.
AND THE PRESIDENT IS ALSO
DEFENDING HIS ACTING ATTORNEY
GENERAL IN THE RUSSIA PROBE.
THIS COMES AS MR. TRUMP
PREPARES TO SUBMIT